.. _flytectl_update_project:

flytectl update project
-----------------------

Updates project resources

Synopsis
~~~~~~~~



Updates the project according the flags passed.Allows you to archive or activate a project.
Activates project named flytesnacks.
::

 bin/flytectl update project -p flytesnacks --activateProject

Archives project named flytesnacks.

::

 bin/flytectl get project flytesnacks --archiveProject

Activates project named flytesnacks using short option -t.
::

 bin/flytectl update project -p flytesnacks -t

Archives project named flytesnacks using short option -a.

::

 bin/flytectl update project flytesnacks -a

Incorrect usage when passing both archive and activate.

::

 bin/flytectl update project flytesnacks -a -t

Incorrect usage when passing unknown-project.

::

 bin/flytectl update project unknown-project -a

Incorrect usage when passing valid project using -p option.

::

 bin/flytectl update project unknown-project -a -p known-project

Usage


::

  flytectl update project [flags]

Options
~~~~~~~

::

  -t, --activateProject   Activates the project specified as argument.
  -a, --archiveProject    Archives the project specified as argument.
  -h, --help              help for project

Options inherited from parent commands
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

::

      --admin.authorizationHeader string      Custom metadata header to pass JWT
      --admin.authorizationServerUrl string   This is the URL to your IDP's authorization server'
      --admin.clientId string                 Client ID
      --admin.clientSecretLocation string     File containing the client secret
      --admin.endpoint string                 For admin types,  specify where the uri of the service is located.
      --admin.insecure                        Use insecure connection.
      --admin.maxBackoffDelay string          Max delay for grpc backoff (default "8s")
      --admin.maxRetries int                  Max number of gRPC retries (default 4)
      --admin.perRetryTimeout string          gRPC per retry timeout (default "15s")
      --admin.scopes strings                  List of scopes to request
      --admin.tokenUrl string                 Your IDPs token endpoint
      --admin.useAuth                         Whether or not to try to authenticate with options below
      --adminutils.batchSize int              Maximum number of records to retrieve per call. (default 100)
      --adminutils.maxRecords int             Maximum number of records to retrieve. (default 500)
      --config string                         config file (default is $HOME/config.yaml)
  -d, --domain string                         Specifies the Flyte project's domain.
      --logger.formatter.type string          Sets logging format type. (default "json")
      --logger.level int                      Sets the minimum logging level. (default 4)
      --logger.mute                           Mutes all logs regardless of severity. Intended for benchmarks/tests only.
      --logger.show-source                    Includes source code location in logs.
  -o, --output string                         Specifies the output type - supported formats [TABLE JSON YAML] (default "TABLE")
  -p, --project string                        Specifies the Flyte project.
      --root.domain string                    Specified the domain to work on.
      --root.output string                    Specified the output type.
      --root.project string                   Specifies the project to work on.

SEE ALSO
~~~~~~~~

* :doc:`flytectl_update` 	 - 
Used for updating flyte resources eg: project.


*Auto generated by spf13/cobra on 11-Feb-2021*
