.. _flytectl_register_files:

flytectl register files
-----------------------

Registers file resources

Synopsis
~~~~~~~~



Registers all the serialized protobuf files including tasks, workflows and launchplans with default v1 version.
If there are already registered entities with v1 version then the command will fail immediately on the first such encounter.
::

 bin/flytectl register file  _pb_output/* -d development  -p flytesnacks

If you want to continue executing registration on other files ignoring the errors including version conflicts then pass in
the skipOnError flag.

::

 bin/flytectl register file  _pb_output/* -d development  -p flytesnacks --skipOnError

Using short format of skipOnError flag
::

 bin/flytectl register file  _pb_output/* -d development  -p flytesnacks -s

Overriding the default version v1 using version string.
::

 bin/flytectl register file  _pb_output/* -d development  -p flytesnacks -v v2

Change the o/p format has not effect on registration. The O/p is currently available only in table format.

::

 bin/flytectl register file  _pb_output/* -d development  -p flytesnacks -s -o yaml

Usage


::

  flytectl register files [flags]

Options
~~~~~~~

::

  -h, --help             help for files
  -s, --skipOnError      fail fast when registering files.
  -v, --version string   version of the entity to be registered with flyte. (default "v1")

Options inherited from parent commands
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

::

      --admin.authorizationHeader string      Custom metadata header to pass JWT
      --admin.authorizationServerUrl string   This is the URL to your IDP's authorization server'
      --admin.clientId string                 Client ID
      --admin.clientSecretLocation string     File containing the client secret
      --admin.endpoint string                 For admin types,  specify where the uri of the service is located.
      --admin.insecure                        Use insecure connection.
      --admin.maxBackoffDelay string          Max delay for grpc backoff (default "8s")
      --admin.maxRetries int                  Max number of gRPC retries (default 4)
      --admin.perRetryTimeout string          gRPC per retry timeout (default "15s")
      --admin.scopes strings                  List of scopes to request
      --admin.tokenUrl string                 Your IDPs token endpoint
      --admin.useAuth                         Whether or not to try to authenticate with options below
      --adminutils.batchSize int              Maximum number of records to retrieve per call. (default 100)
      --adminutils.maxRecords int             Maximum number of records to retrieve. (default 500)
      --config string                         config file (default is $HOME/config.yaml)
  -d, --domain string                         Specifies the Flyte project's domain.
      --logger.formatter.type string          Sets logging format type. (default "json")
      --logger.level int                      Sets the minimum logging level. (default 4)
      --logger.mute                           Mutes all logs regardless of severity. Intended for benchmarks/tests only.
      --logger.show-source                    Includes source code location in logs.
  -o, --output string                         Specifies the output type - supported formats [TABLE JSON YAML] (default "TABLE")
  -p, --project string                        Specifies the Flyte project.
      --root.domain string                    Specified the domain to work on.
      --root.output string                    Specified the output type.
      --root.project string                   Specifies the project to work on.

SEE ALSO
~~~~~~~~

* :doc:`flytectl_register` 	 - Registers tasks/workflows/launchplans from list of generated serialized files.

*Auto generated by spf13/cobra on 11-Feb-2021*
