#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.8
# by the following command:
#
#    pip-compile doc-requirements.in
#
alabaster==0.7.13
    # via sphinx
babel==2.14.0
    # via sphinx
beautifulsoup4==4.12.2
    # via
    #   furo
    #   sphinx-code-include
    #   sphinx-material
certifi==2023.11.17
    # via requests
charset-normalizer==3.3.2
    # via requests
css-html-js-minify==2.5.5
    # via sphinx-material
docutils==0.17.1
    # via
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinx-panels
furo @ git+https://github.com/flyteorg/furo@main
    # via -r doc-requirements.in
idna==3.6
    # via requests
imagesize==1.4.1
    # via sphinx
importlib-metadata==7.0.1
    # via sphinx
jinja2==3.1.3
    # via sphinx
lxml==5.1.0
    # via sphinx-material
markupsafe==2.1.3
    # via jinja2
packaging==23.2
    # via sphinx
pygments==2.17.2
    # via
    #   furo
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinx-prompt
python-slugify[unidecode]==8.0.1
    # via sphinx-material
pytz==2023.3.post1
    # via babel
requests==2.31.0
    # via
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinxcontrib-youtube
six==1.16.0
    # via sphinx-code-include
snowballstemmer==2.2.0
    # via sphinx
soupsieve==2.5
    # via beautifulsoup4
sphinx==4.5.0
    # via
    #   -r doc-requirements.in
    #   furo
    #   sphinx-basic-ng
    #   sphinx-code-include
    #   sphinx-copybutton
    #   sphinx-fontawesome
    #   sphinx-material
    #   sphinx-panels
    #   sphinx-prompt
    #   sphinx-reredirects
    #   sphinxcontrib-youtube
sphinx-basic-ng==1.0.0b2
    # via furo
sphinx-code-include==1.1.1
    # via -r doc-requirements.in
sphinx-copybutton==0.5.2
    # via -r doc-requirements.in
sphinx-fontawesome==0.0.6
    # via -r doc-requirements.in
sphinx-material==0.0.36
    # via -r doc-requirements.in
sphinx-panels==0.6.0
    # via -r doc-requirements.in
sphinx-prompt==1.5.0
    # via -r doc-requirements.in
sphinx-reredirects==0.1.3
    # via -r doc-requirements.in
sphinxcontrib-applehelp==1.0.4
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-devhelp==1.0.2
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-htmlhelp==2.0.1
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-jsmath==1.0.1
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-qthelp==1.0.3
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-serializinghtml==1.1.5
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-youtube==1.3.0
    # via -r doc-requirements.in
text-unidecode==1.3
    # via python-slugify
unidecode==1.3.8
    # via python-slugify
urllib3==2.1.0
    # via requests
zipp==3.17.0
    # via importlib-metadata
setuptools>=65.5.1 # not directly required, pinned by Snyk to avoid a vulnerability
